ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]:
Previously on "Dance Moms."
This week, you will be performing
in the annual dance concert.
Are we doing a new number,
or are you not?
I'm going to call Kelly and see
if she's planning on coming.
Do you think Christi and Kelly
are going to make your kid a star?
Pick which side you're on.
Shush the beak.
Stop it. Since when does your
ass go on my stage.
Never in 40 years of being
in the Abby Lee Dance Company
has anyone been given a solo
the day of the [bleep] recital!
You're out. You're out.
KELLY: Good!
- Call the police.
Get her out of here. KELLY: I'm done!
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]:
Coming up on "Dance Moms."
This week, we will be attending Believe
in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
The Wicked Witch from
the West will be there.
All of you have come highly recommended.
How's it going?
You sit here and say
that is not your seat,
I want Kelly back, when she constantly
runs out on this team with her children!
Hey, how about you take a seat--
CATHY: I don't need to take a seat.
---and enjoy the show.
ABBY LEE: She's lucky
I even know her name.
-I didn't--
-So shut your mouth!
No, stop! This is about dance!
Are you people insane?
[THEME - NIKKI LOWE, "LIVING ON
THE DANCE FLOOR"]
[SINGING] Get up, get on the floor.
My world is with my girls,
living on the dance floor.
[pop music]
ABBY LEE: Come on, girls.
Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
Come on.
Move it. Move it. Move it.
JILL [VOICEOVER]: I miss
Kelly like the rest of us,
but reality is Kelly pulled
her kids from the recital,
and we don't know
if she's coming back or not.
Well, congratulations.
The annual dance concert is over.
The show went off without a hitch.
Let's get to the pyramid.
First, I have Paige.
Paige wasn't there.
Paige was given the
opportunity to do a new solo--
very unprofessional.
Next, we have Brooke.
She could have sang "Summer Love Song"
in my show for the finale.
I single-handedly was
giving her the opportunity
to resurrect that old song
and get a lot more mileage out of it.
It's one thing for Kelly to let me down--
she does it all the time--
but it's another thing for her
to let her own children down.
And that's exactly what she did.
Next, we have Asia.
Asia, you did an outstanding
job with the solo.
ABBY LEE: You do all these
really exciting tricks--
grab your leg, spin around three times--
and you couldn't put your pants on right.
[salsa music]
Kristie, you're a dance mom.
You know better.
I do.
Next, I have Nia.
Nia, what can you do
better than everybody else?
It's good. It's fine.
But it's not excellence.
If you were to give her
probably a little bit more
of your time and attention one-on-one,
I think she could prove
to you that she is a great
and talented dancer.
I'm really getting sick and tired of Abby
saying that Nia's not as good
as the rest of the girls.
All the other girls have
opportunities to do solos,
duos, trios, and get that extra time
with Abby to learn from her.
Nia hasn't had any of
that in over six months,
and that's why the girls are
perceived to be "excellent."
All right, moving on up, Mackenzie.
Sandra from "Dance Track Magazine"
said that you were a fantastic nerd.
SANDRA: That's pretty.
You just didn't know enough
nerd moves or nerd poses.
And next, we have Maddie.
You had the opportunity
to do a new routine.
I had to put my hand up for you.
Paige would prefer not to do a new solo.
I'm offering it to somebody else.
Maddie, you have your survivor number?
She did not volunteer.
You volunteered her.
That can't happen.
If you're going to act like that,
I'm going to pass you up
and give those opportunities
to other people.
And next...
...we have Chloe.
You would have to be the MVP of the show.
She knew Paige's choreography.
She just did it.
[applause]
Now, Christi, I'm looking
at your body language,
and you're not thrilled
that she's this high.
I'm thrilled that she's
second on the pyramid.
Of course, I am.
If you think Chloe was the MVP
and the hero of the recital,
why don't you give her the
top spot in the pyramid?
And now on the top of our pyramid
is none other than our "Dance
Track Magazine" cover girl,
Miss Kendall.
[applause]
Woo-hoo!
ABBY LEE: Kendall was
looking into that camera
like you were looking
at another mean girl.
Kendall and I worked
so hard at getting her
to the top of that
pyramid through hard work
and perseverance.
And the fact that she is
on top is amazing to me.
All of her hard work is paying off.
This week, we will be attending Believe
in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
This is going to be a biggie.
It's exciting to go to a
new competition this week.
Believe is a prestigious competition,
so that means Abby is going
to be that much more difficult
and harder on the girls,
because she's going to expect nothing
but the best.
You are all in the group routine,
And the name is "Open Waters."
You better be the sharks
in those open waters.
Moms, the Wicked Witch will be there.
MELISSA [VOICEOVER]:
When I hear Candy Apples,
the hair on my neck stands up,
because Abby turns
into a totally different person.
The closer we get to the competition,
the more stressed out she gets.
Now, I also found out
that she is doing a trio,
so that means we're going to do a trio.
Chloe, Kendall...
...and I was
going to choose Maddie,
but I think I'm going to use Nia.
[applause]
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: Sorry, Maddie.
You obviously don't care
about being featured.
If you did, you would
have raised your hand like
[SNAPPING] that when I asked for
a replacement for the dance concert.
We are not going to
lose to that evil woman.
Understand?
- Yes.
- I'm the only evil woman in your life.
[laughter]
All right, moms, you're dismissed.
Girls, spread apart.
Let's go.
[upbeat music]
Guys, did you warm up?
Good.
And I see that we're
starting into choreography,
so that's awesome.
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: I can't wait
to compete against Abby this week.
We have a new lineup with some new faces.
I am so excited to show off this team.
The last time that we went
up against Abby, we lost.
And in first place, Entry
Number 76, "Bad Girls."
[applause]
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: It's
crucial this week that we win.
I think with this new and improved team,
it's going to happen.
All of you have very good technique.
You either have come highly recommended
or highly sought after.
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: I've
done a lot of research.
I'm so excited for these
new dancers and their moms.
Just take it up.
Yes.
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: Lucas is by
far one of the most flexible
dancers in the country.
I'm actually very good friends
with Lucas's mom, Bridget,
on Facebook.
There we go.
Okay, good.
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: Anthony
actually recommended
Brooke for this team.
He said that she's a
beautiful, graceful dancer,
and that she can handle hard choreography.
Michelle is a new mom.
She has a passion to be part of my team.
I appreciate that.
Hadley?
How about a lunge?
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: Hadley's a no-brainer
for coming back to my team.
She's the total package.
She's beautiful. She's talented.
And she brings along a
mom that's just like me--
fashionable, bubbly, and, you know,
I think that Yvette and I are soulmates.
CATHY: Arms up and--
oh, that's beautiful, Nicaya.
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: I don't
think that Abby took the time
to find out what Nicaya's qualities were.
And I, on the other hand, have
become very fond of Nicaya
and very fond of Kaya, her mom.
And Black Patsy proved
herself to me a thousand times
over when she stood up to Jill
and took her about 5 feet back
with finger-to-nose.
Show me a good pose and--
see?
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: I brought
back Mari for several reasons.
She has beautiful extensions and leaps.
One of the main reasons that Mari is back
is that Gina is a mouth.
And Gina is not going to take
crap from no one,
particularly the Pittsburgh moms.
MICHELLE: But what's the competition?
What's the name of it?
- It's called-- Believe.
MICHELLE: Believe.
Believe, I believe, and I believe
you are going to meet
your match this weekend.
I believe I will.
What is your history with Kristie?
I don't really know.
Oh, Kristie and I, we really didn't even
hit it off from day 1.
- Get out!
- Kristie!
- You know what?
- No.
- What?
- Listen--
- No, you listen!
- Hit me!
- No, you hit me!
You hit me!
Kristie's a piece of work.
[inaudible].
Watch one time and go.
5, 6, 7, 8.
Wop, bop, step--
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: Anthony has created
the most amazing group dance.
It's the "Four Seasons."
This, by far, is my most
technically savvy team.
I think between their talent and ability
and Anthony's choreography
that they are going to pulverize Abby.
Hop, step, step.
Hop, hop.
Hey, bop, bop, step,
step, bop, bop, bop, bop!
And 3 and 4 and--
[electronic dance music]
ABBY LEE: All right, now
ladies, listen to me.
We're taking a prop because
we're not going that far away.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: We're doing a piece
for the group entitled "Open Waters."
It's a really cool contemporary piece.
Now I have props that look
like the beach, the shore.
I need to make sure
that they understand
that whoever's up on that prop,
the judges are looking at.
Tour en l'air on [inaudible] side.
Aerial push.
Abby's going very slow, kid to kid--
Yep.
--and explaining exactly what she wants.
That's good.
- You know what I think?
JILL: Yep.
- It's because she wants this--
She wants to do well.
--because it's Cathy.
It's Cathy.
It's going to be us against them,
and it's going to be crazy.
[MUSIC - LORI MARTINI AND
CASSANDRA KUBINSKI, "SWIM"]
[SINGING] So even though
you're terrified--
You are dancing right here, right now,
like you have never had
a dance class in your life.
If that was me and I was
dancing it, three-step turn.
Reach in here.
[inaudible]
That's what I would
have done without anybody telling me
what to do at 12 years old.
And your mother's telling me
how much you've improved.
So I know what Abby's doing now.
Because I demanded from her
to take more time with Nia,
she's going to be even harder
and harsher with her
because I asked her to do something.
I know I asked Abby
for more one-on-time with Nia,
but I don't think I chose
the best week to do it.
First, we're going to a new competition.
Second, Paige and Brooke are absent,
and it throws everything off.
And third, we're going against
Cathy and the Candy Apples.
What have I done to poor Nia?
It feels weird to be going,
you know, face-to-face with Cathy
and her team without Kelly.
I still think she's coming back.
You do?
I'm sorry, but the team
isn't the team without Kelly.
Kelly's always been a member
of the team with her children,
and it just doesn't feel
the same without them.
ABBY LEE: All right, I've seen enough.
We have three days to get ready.
A group with a big prop
and we have a trio to do.
I need your brains in your head.
We're going up against my enemy.
And what has Kelly done?
She's left us short two members.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]:
Well, I can fix that.
Everyone's replaceable.
[hip hop music]
All right, group dance.
Everybody ready?
We're going up against that crab
and her rotten apples this week.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: Now, this
is a brand-new competition.
Losing is not an option.
I shouldn't worry.
I just don't trust Cathy.
I don't trust her with these boys,
with these older kids.
If I know that witch,
she's got something brewing.
I don't trust her as
far as I can throw her,
and I'd like to throw her overboard.
Cathy, I can handle it.
We are going to win.
We'll put some padding on it.
[MUSIC - LORI MARTINI AND
CASSANDRA KUBINSKI, "SWIM"]
Oh, Chloe, you just stepped
on a pigeon-toed foot
into that turn!
Watch that sloppy foot.
Stay low.
Keep working, Nia!
You're standing there again.
Go over it and over it and over it.
I look up. I see Nia standing in second
with her arms hanging out.
HOLLY [VOICEOVER]:
This is a big week for Nia.
She has a trio, in addition
to being in the group number.
But I know Nia's a tough
cookie, and she can handle it.
That's an interesting dance.
Well, it's almost like
they're-- you're trying
to figure out what the hell's going on.
It's like a mystery.
It really does feel incomplete
without Paige and Brooke.
And whether Abby wants to admit it or not,
they complete this team.
Right here, there needs
to be another person
up on that dancing.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]:
his number is not coming along
as quickly as I'd like.
Something's off, and I know what that is.
It's my numbers.
If we're going to beat Cathy,
I need to make an addition to this group.
ABBY LEE: Guess who's here
early for her private?
Oh, she's bringing Payton in.
Oh, hey.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]:
I've decided to bring Payton
into the group number.
She wants to be successful.
She wants to be part of this team,
and she's going to do everything
she can to help us win.
Get up there on that beach and just,
like, improv a little bit.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]:
I've had some problems
with Payton in the past
because she has a smart mouth.
You need to fix that turnout.
I thought that I was better than most
of the people for all rounds.
ABBY LEE: You thought you were better
than most of the people in this group?
LESLIE: Performance-wise.
Oh, that's cocky.
But that's how I feel, performance-wise.
She's a great dancer, she's strong,
and she's going to take over
and be the leader of this group.
It's high time that
somebody be the leader.
[MUSIC - LORI MARTINI AND
CASSANDRA KUBINSKI, "SWIM"]
How old's Payton?
- 15.
- Perfect.
Payton's danced with the team before.
I mean, and she's--
- Yeah.
MELISSA: She's tall, but she--
JILL: She's been an ALDC
member for years now.
CHRISTI: She's actually--
MELISSA: She's a member.
And she's actually come in to help
take Brooke's place two times.
Oh, yay.
With Payton-- that only
means one thing's coming,
and that's Leslie.
Yippy for me.
Hi, ladies.
CHRISTI: Hello.
MELISSA: Hi.
JILL: Hi, Leslie.
CHRISTI [VOICEOVER]: However,
I will say one thing.
Going up against the
Candy Apples this week,
it's good to have someone
like Leslie in your corner--
you know, someone who's seen
a brawl or five in a bar before.
CHRISTI: We know you're scrappy,
and we might need some
extra scrap this weekend,
because there are some bitches
coming to town.
- Yeah, we're happy you're--
LESLIE: What do you mean?
[MUSIC - LORI MARTINI AND
CASSANDRA KUBINSKI, "SWIM"]
CHRISTI: I am always the first person
to say, like, we don't need this person--
I think we need it this week.
CHRISTI: --we don't need that person.
Perfectly fine with Payton
dancing with this group--
Absolutely.
CHRISTI: --this week,
because you know what?
It's not about this,
that, and the other thing.
It's about beating Candy Apples.
And--
And she's an Abby Lee
Dance Company member.
CHRISTI: That's right.
HOLLY: Yep.
MELISSA: She is a member of our team.
HOLLY: If you got to bring someone in,
bring someone from the team.
Well, this is different.
I'm happy that you guys are happy.
No, no, of course.
We're really excited to
be here with the team today.
And if Brooke and Paige don't come back,
do you think Payton fits in this team?
I mean, seriously.
I think that she will use
Payton until she works out
whatever problems she's having
with Brooke and Paige.
And then Brooke will come back,
and Payton will be kicked out again.
- Because that's what she does.
- --that's wrong.
Payton and I want to be on this team.
We want to be permanent team members.
And we're going to do whatever
it takes to stay on this team.
You know, Payton and I would
die to have the opportunity
that your kids have.
Careful what you wish for, Leslie.
And I know you say that, but that's
why I've been doing this for 16 years.
She would die
just for a little bit of that.
[upbeat music]
ANTHONY: Foom, fa, foom,
fa, foom, foom, foom, foom.
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: Our group number
this week is the "Four Seasons"--
classical, contemporary.
We have Hadley as winter,
Nicaya as fall or autumn,
Mary as spring, and Brooke as summer.
Where does that leave Lucas?
He's kind of the instigator
that's got the seasons going
the ultimate extreme.
I think it's our turn for a win.
Let's rock it, Candy Apples.
Good job.
Love you all.
ABBY LEE: Okay, but your arms--
push, push, circle, close.
Start to roll down, down.
CHRISTI: So Jill, when
we see Candy Apples,
are you going to be sad that
you're not part of their team?
Oh, stop with it.
- We should all carry--
Why do you have to bring that up?
- We should all--
I hate you for bringing that up.
Now I got crazy.
We should all go buy
designer bag knockoffs
and fill them with bricks
and walk like this, like Cathy.
[clicking tongue]
And then when she comes by,
everybody hit her with them.
- And say, oh!
- I'm game!
CHRISTI: I know you are, but we
have to buy knock-offs, so that it--
No, why knock--
- Oh, you mean to--
No. No, not--
--emulate her?
I'm dying to know who's on her team.
I am, too.
- Oh, me too.
And because the rumor is Zack left.
MELISSA: Black Patsy gets
on my fricking nerves.
My blood--
- How about the fact--
HOLLY: Gina was not--
KRISTIE: Stay out of my personal space!
- Okay. Wait, wait, wait, wait.
She touches me, and--
KRISTIE: Wait, wait, wait.
- She better--
- Sorry, I spit on you.
--stay out of your
personal space, 'cause--
And tells me to stay--
- --I'm going to deck her.
JILL: --out of her personal space.
KRISTIE: No, I just forgot.
I'm going to deck her.
[electronic dance music]
You hungry?
- Mm-hmm.
I'm starving.
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: I
brought Vivi and my mom
out to eat to discuss
this week's competition.
Well, I'm glad that we're
all here, because I wanted
to ask you if you wanted to go to
Lancaster with me this weekend.
CATHY'S MOM: [sighs]
Yeah, I guess.
CATHY: Well--
It's a long drive, but--
CATHY: Yes, I know it is.
It's awfully long.
I'm not looking forward to that, but I'm
taking this special team, and it's new.
Well, you know, I always
like to go and support you.
Well, that's nice, because,
you know, this is the first time
that you're
going to see Abby since--
Oh, yes.
CATHY: --she called you pathetic.
And I just think that
with Abby being there,
it's important that--
Maybe I should trip her down the steps.
CATHY: Nah, I don't know.
Last time that we saw her, we lost to her.
That's when we did the bicycle
number, which was brilliant.
So it's our turn to win.
I will have my revenge against ALDC.
Oh, I can't get this out.
CATHY'S MOM: She's an eater.
CATHY: Yeah, I know.
She likes food.
CATHY: Did you know, Vivi,
that grandma tap danced?
But did you know that grandma was--
A Granny Apple.
She was?
CATHY: Mm-hmm.
And we had red skirts
and white shirts
that said Granny Apple on the back.
We're the three musketeers.
- That's right.
Aren't we?
[electronic dance music]
[MUSIC - I AM NOT LEFTHANDED,
"BOATS [SWEPT AWAY]"]
ABBY LEE: Too much flexed
feet, too pigeon-toed there.
Supporting foot needs to
[inaudible] and stretch!
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: We
have a trio this week.
These three castaways are doing
a contemporary jazz routine.
Now, are they going to be
strong enough and clean enough
to beat whatever the
crab apple is bringing?
That I don't know.
ABBY LEE: Supporting foot needs to point!
That knee is bent again!
I don't think that trio is meant to win.
I don't think so.
HOLLY [VOICEOVER]: This is Nia's
first trio in a really long time.
I hope Abby gets this trio in shape
because there's
a lot of stake at this new competition,
and I definitely don't
want to lose to Cathy.
Tomorrow, we come in.
We get on the bus.
We go.
Understand?
I like this spot right here.
Yeah, I know.
Hopefully, it's mine permanently.
No, I'm pretty sure it's still Kelly's.
JILL: Really, Leslie?
Is that your goal? Is that--
Absolutely, it's my goal.
You want Payton, who's 15, to dance with--
LESLIE: Well, you know what?
- --10-year-olds?
Then she can bring somebody--
there's another spot open.
Bring somebody in her size,
and it'll equal out.
Wouldn't you want somebody on your team
that is 100% for the team?
If Brooke walked through that door,
I think that she would
put Brooke in the number.
I don't think Kelly and Brooke and Paige
should be able to come back.
Three times you leave the team?
When is it time that
you're not allowed back?
From my perspective,
watching Abby yesterday,
she missed Brooke being in this number
because there are things
she wanted the kids to do,
and they're not Brooke.
In the group number,
you're going to watch Payton
and give her choreography
that she can do.
Leslie must be on some sort
of mind-altering drug--
you know, probably one
she borrowed from Melissa--
if she thinks she's going to
replace Kelly on this team.
I plan to tell Abby that
we really want this spot.
I don't want this just to
be another fill-in week.
Everybody has to think of the real reason
why we're sitting here in the first place.
It's to get our child ahead in dance.
CHRISTI: Well, Candy
Apples has a lot of teams.
Maybe you need to go there.
JILL: Cathy is trying so hard to come up
with a group of kids that
can beat our group of kids.
Her boys didn't work out,
so she gets rid of the boys.
She brings in a new group.
What kind of teacher is that?
I am so sick of Cathy's tricks.
I want to make sure that us
moms stick together this week,
and we hand that crab apple a loss.
Are we sticking together?
Because, you know, once
we get there, Cathy's--
they're going to come after us or me.
Now why are you saying this?
Have you guys not stuck
together in the past?
Yes!
- No, we have.
I feel like I'm getting
ready to go, like, to battle.
You're our-- what did you call yourself?
The boy who fights in hockey?
- The goon.
[LAUGHING] The goon.
- I'm not the goon.
Maybe Leslie has a purpose after all.
I could get used to her going
in as the muscle to fight
with Cathy this weekend.
LESLIE: Morning.
HOLLY: Hi, good morning.
JILL: Good morning.
Good afternoon.
New face, how are you?
I'm good.
Good.
Finally getting to sit in Kelly's seat?
I just want to let you know
that she is really enjoying
this, and we are going to take every
opportunity that comes our way.
And that's why we are here.
Payton has the energy.
Payton has the desire.
She wants to do it. She wants
to be the best. She wants this.
But for this routine that
we're doing right now,
when I envisioned this number,
I had Brooke on that prop,
and she could do all
that contortion work,
that rolling around on the floor.
All of that was supposed
to take place on that prop.
Payton doesn't have those skills.
She has other skills.
I hate to say it, Leslie,
but we told you so.
Brooke just has a certain skill set
that's difficult for Abby to replace.
Do you know how hard it is
when you don't-- when she gets
kicked off this team every time?
It's not about being kicked off the team.
It's about not being right
for the piece that we're doing.
But it still feels that way to--
ABBY LEE: Right.
Well--
--a 14, 15-year-old.
So every time I explain
to her, but you still
have to be there when she asks you back
and we are going to keep doing that,
we don't want that.
We want to be a permanent spot.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]:
Leslie is in my face about Payton
being on the team and being a permanent
member and blah, blah, blah.
You know what, Leslie?
You are not making a very
good case for Payton's future.
[exhales]
I want to remind you what this
competition means to everybody
and what's at stake.
Lots of things are at stake at this one.
I want to win.
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: Everybody needs
to bring it to the table this
weekend at the competition.
CATHY: Moms, Anthony
has requested that you
keep your chatter to a minimum.
And Anthony is going to keep his
bold corrections to a minimum.
Who said that?
- I did.
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: This trio is parody
on those moms trying to be spies.
So we've got a spy musical theater jazz
routine going to the stage.
ANTHONY: Watch your face. [CLAPPING]
Why am I seeing your face?
I don't want to see your face
until you put the newspaper down.
Go back.
CATHY: Do you think that your
bark is worse than your bite?
ANTHONY: I don't bite.
CATHY: You bark though.
ANTHONY: I bark.
Bigger lean-- sharper, sharper.
Bop, bop, lay.
Did you change that part where
they were all going the same way?
ANTHONY: Yeah, I did, because
Brooke couldn't get it.
Because Brooke couldn't get it?
ANTHONY: I'm talking about her
not getting her choreography.
That's what I'm talking about.
MICHELLE: Really?
Whatever I took out.
And it's done, so quiet.
CATHY: Anthony--
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: I am tired
of fighting with Anthony.
He needs to remember who signs his checks.
Honestly, I think that Anthony likes
to perform when you get in here.
So just know that I have--
ANTHONY: No.
--the kids' best interest at heart.
ANTHONY: Yeah, 'cause
I'm a true performer.
Hey, how about you take a seat--
CATHY: I don't need to take a seat.
ANTHONY: --and enjoy the show.
- I don't need to take a seat.
ANTHONY: You take a seat
and enjoy the real show.
Listen, listen. I'm Miss Candy Apples,
and you are not.
ANTHONY: It sure can be ABD--
- So you always have to keep that in mind.
--Anthony Burrell Dance.
You better best believe.
CATHY: Yeah, okay.
- It can happen.
CATHY: Okay, okay.
- And I will have a squash of a team--
Okay, I hear ya.
--because half of this
team will be coming with me.
I hear ya.
[dramatic music]
[shouting]
[electronic dance music]
CROWD: Cathy! Cathy! Cathy!
Cathy! Cathy!
Cathy!
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: We're going
up against the Abby Lee Dance Company
here in Pennsylvania.
We have a group dance and a trio.
Anthony's mom is here, and my mom is here.
That sounds like an
unbeatable combination.
[screaming]
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: Here
we are at Believe Talent Competition
in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
I think that our routines
are going to knock Cathy
right off that broomstick.
And the Abby Lee Dance Company
is going to make a name for themselves
at this brand-new Believe
Talent Competition.
Oh, this is great.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: This week, we also
have a tag-along, Leslie.
Now her daughter, Payton, is
a great addition to the team.
Payton works well with the other kids,
and she looks great in this number.
I'm not so sure about her mother, Leslie,
but I do know she's a vast
improvement over Kelly.
So Leslie, let me just say,
Payton, that I'm
happy you're here, but I am--
Are you happier that
we're here and Kelly's not?
- Is that what you're trying to say?
- Well, I can't say happier. That--
ABBY LEE: Oh, I am!
- That's not fair.
I'm hoping that you guys
get used to it being Payton
and I here and Kelly not coming back.
ABBY LEE: It's fine.
Listen to me, Kendall.
You know what, Payton?
Just so all of you
know, my name is Payton.
It's not Kendall. It's not Brooke.
It's none of you. It's Payton.
HOLLY: Yes, yes.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: Just
what she did right now, like,
saying her name like that,
that's a 15 going on 16-year-old thing.
You would never, ever hear
one of these kids talk to me that way.
- No, she wasn't talking to you.
- She just said that.
- That's a smart mouth.
- She wasn't being smart.
And as a parent, you should take her
outside and have a little chat.
No, you're missing what
she's trying to tell you.
She's trying to tell you--
ABBY LEE: No, because I kept--
--that she's a person!
--calling her Kendall
in rehearsal by mistake!
LESLIE: Confuse--
- I say lots of kids' names!
She's lucky I even know her name!
LESLIE: I didn't--
- So shut your mouth!
I'm going to ask you a question
right now, Miss Payton.
And if you answer me yes, then you're--
LESLIE: Don't answer.
--where you should be at 15 years old.
Do you have your solo costume with you?
No?
Then keep the smart mouth to yourself,
because you'd have brought it just in case
I wanted to write you in.
Leslie wants Kelly's spot so desperately.
CHRISTI [VOICEOVER]: That seat
has a name on it, and it's not Leslie.
Clearly, as soon as Kelly comes
back, Leslie is out the door.
You know what? Can you all listen to me
while you're doing whatever?
No surprises here, the kids
are going up against Kendall,
Chloe, and Nia.
That's their trio.
So I need you guys to really
go out there and sell this, okay?
There's scores to be settled
when it comes to talents.
And Anthony's mom is here.
My mom is here.
- So we're excited, right?
- Absolutely.
But you know what?
There's some people here
that don't know our chant.
Oh, yes. Let's do it. Come on.
- Everybody put your hands in.
- Everyone, who are we?
ALL: Apple core, apple core, apple core!
[cheering]
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: I think
it's our turn for a win.
And nothing drives
Abby off the brink
than when Candy Apples
Dance Center beats ALDC.
So let's rock it, Candy Apples.
CATHY: Do good, guys. Do good.
[ominous music]
ABBY LEE: All right, girls, listen up.
Everybody, listen to me.
I want as little interaction
with that other team as possible.
Let's go.
HOLLY: Break a leg.
LESLIE: Hey, break a leg, girls.
[inaudible] HOLLY: Break a leg.
ABBY LEE: Are you going to get them
back in and come sit with us?
- Hey.
- Oh, here they come.
Hi.
MELISSA I could see her Spanx.
Whose Spanx?
LESLIE: Your Spanx are
squeezing your thighs too tight.
I see her Spanx.
Look it.
KRISTIE [VOICEOVER]: Right
now, I'm watching Yvette,
and I think it's going to go down.
I was on a competition
with Yvette and Asia.
She said that she would ruin my daughter
at six years old if she ever--
- I never said that. I--
- Are you kidding me?
YVETTE: No, I would never do that.
You stood there, and you said,
I will ruin your daughter--
YVETTE: No!
- --if she ever--
I would never take it out on the kid--
KRISTIE: Are you kidding me?
- --ever.
KRISTIE: You know what?
I said be careful.
- Uh-huh.
- You don't know who I am.
I did say that.
Well, I'm glad I don't know a person
that would say that about six-year-old.
I did not say that--
- Okay? --about a six-year-old.
- Really, Yvette?
- Come on.
- Yes, Kristie.
- Let's go.
- Yeah, really, Yvette.
Yes.
KRISTIE: Take your Spanx off. Take--
YVETTE [VOICEOVER]: I absolutely think
Kristie Ray has it out for me.
I don't know what it is.
Is it my blonde hair?
Is it my daughter?
I take her accusations
with a grain of salt.
[electronic dance music]
CATHY: Anthony and I put a great deal
into working with the trio.
I hope that the trio does well.
ANNOUNCER: Please help me
welcome to the stage, "Spies
Like Them," [inaudible].
[applause]
[MUSIC - BRYAN STEELE, "LIVE AND DIE"]
[SINGING] Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Ladies--
[record scratching]
[SINGING] And this is how you do it.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
[applause]
[dramatic music]
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]:
Cathy's trio is a mess.
I'm not sure if the whole
thing was improvved.
My trio looks good.
It's unbeatable.
ANNOUNCER: Judges, up next
will be Entry Number 43A, 43A.
MELISSA [VOICEOVER]:
So Anthony is standing
against the wall over there.
And Anthony and us moms have
this really bad relationship.
ANTHONY: Yeah, do not
touch my props ever again.
I didn't know it was your prop.
Well, that's what I'm saying. You don't--
- But you keep your hands off of a lady.
- But you don't-- [interposing voices]
Why you take [bleep] that's not yours?
MELISSA: Whose prop would it be?
What the hell wrong with you, crazy?
I think it's hilarious
because I don't have to hear him
screaming in my ear.
Please help me welcome to the
stage, "Castaways," Number 43A.
Woo!
[applause]
[MUSIC - I AM NOT LEFTHANDED,
"BOATS [SWEPT AWAY]"]
[SINGING] Oh, hey.
So I know you're tired,
so leave it to the tide.
And at next light,
when weather is right,
come sailing home.
Let the dark subside.
Just leave it to one side.
I'm on your side.
Nia's face is priceless.
[SINGING] Come sailing home again.
[applause]
[electronic dance music]
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: My trio
gave a nice, solid performance.
I was impressed.
Nia, you're on the right path now.
- Oh, well--
- All right.
--bu that was good.
I got to tell you, when
our girls get on stage,
all she does is--
[babbles]
[interposing voices]
They shouldn't be speaking
and talking and doing
that while our kids are on stage.
There's not a whole
lot of class back there.
LESLIE: Yeah.
CHRISTI [VOICEOVER]: How disrespectful
are the Candy Apples?
The entire time our girls were on stage,
they're sitting behind us mocking them.
Last time you saw them,
she put her hands on you.
They have terrible issues.
Every time we see them,
there's a physical altercation.
And she's not nice.
They're not going to back down.
[electronic dance music]
ABBY LEE: That was beautiful.
Your port de bras was beautiful.
- She did it.
ABBY LEE: Are you smiling?
KID: Yes.
- Maddie is!
Aw, I see her teeth up here.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: I think
that our routines are going
to knock Cathy right off that broomstick.
This is a brand-new competition.
When it comes to Cathy, they have to win.
ABBY LEE: I don't think we
have to worry about making applesauce,
because I think
all those other groups out there
already made applesauce out of them.
Okay, let's go.
CATHY: Do it from the back.
Do it-- there you go.
ANTHONY: This is a strong team.
CATHY: This is a strong team.
ANTHONY: We want to immediately, you
know, get ready for this group dance.
CATHY: Yeah.
ANTHONY: We got a lot to do.
CATHY: So we need to get moving.
ANTHONY: Sharp-- this is extra sharp.
Ba, da, uh, da, uh, tt.
This group number has got to beat Abby.
That's why we're here.
We have to put Candy
Apples back on the map
and show Abby that we are
a team to be reckoned with.
ANNOUNCER: Judges, up next,
it will Entry Number 88B
in the Contemporary category.
Please help welcome "Four Seasons."
[applause]
[MUSIC - SLY/FLY/BADMAN, "SUMMER BUMMER"]
[upbeat music]
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: I think that
the group did an amazing job.
The faces, the choreography,
the costumes-- all top notch.
I'm sure that Abby's
group is nervous to dance.
Those little girls are probably
shaking in their jazz shoes.
ANNOUNCER: All right, judges, up next,
it will be Entry Number 88A
in the Contemporary category.
Please help me welcome
to the stage, "Open Waters."
[applause]
- Woo!
[MUSIC - LORI MARTINI AND
CASSANDRA KUBINSKI, "SWIM"]
[SINGING] I can tell you're
still testing the water
and don't know how to begin.
Fall with me to the open water.
There is no lifeline to climb.
The deeper you go,
swallowed by the undertow,
the more you feel alive.
I'll be there to keep you
floating over and over again.
I'll be there, and I'll keep you floating
until you learn to swim.
To swim, oh, oh.
[cheering]
Woo-hoo!
[applause]
Woo!
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: I thought
that our group was excellent.
Was it the most exciting routine
I've ever done in my life?
No, of course not.
But in two days, I thought
it was pretty darn good.
[suspenseful music]
ANNOUNCER: All right,
we got some special awards to give away.
So here we go.
Now Nine to 11, Duo-Trio Power Top 10.
Seventh place goes to "Spies
Like Them," Number 43B.
[applause]
CATHY [VOICEOVER]: This is definitely
not one of my prouder moments.
I wish that the trio
would have placed higher.
I'm keeping my fingers crossed though.
I'm hoping that the group
definitely beats Abby.
Fifth place champion
is "Castaways," Number 43A.
[applause]
CHRISTI [VOICEOVER]: The trio might not
have won the entire competition,
but they beat Candy Apples,
so that's all right in my book.
All right, we're moving now
into our 9 to 11 Small Group.
Fourth place champion, "In
the Middle," Number 72.
And now, ladies and gentlemen,
our third place champion,
"Four Seasons," Number 88B.
[laughter]
ANNOUNCER: Now. ladies and gentlemen,
your highest scoring Nine to
11 Small Group Power Champion
will be "Open Waters," Number 88A.
[cheering]
CHRISTI: Yeah, woo!
[applause]
ANNOUNCER: Way to go, guys.
Congratulations.
And what's the name of your dance studio?
Abby Lee Dance Company.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]: The very first time
at a brand-new competition,
and we were the overall
high-score winners.
And just for some icing on the cake,
we did it in front of
Cathy and all her moms.
[cheering]
- What a rush.
- You know what?
I think Payton was great today.
That does not mean that that
chair that your butt is in
belongs to anybody but Kelly.
[dramatic music]
After the win?
After the win, you have enough
nerve to say that to me?
Leslie, I said Payton danced great.
She came for your team.
She supported you.
She helped you out to win.
But you're going to sit here and say--
And I gave her the credit!
- --you want-- [bleep]
I said-- [bleep]!!
- --gave her the credit.
Don't you [bleep] me.
I'll [bleep] you!
You will sit here and say,
that is not your seat,
I want Kelly back,
when she constantly runs out
on this team with her children.
Leslie's like the boil
on the butt of humanity.
Go away.
CHRISTI [VOICEOVER]: I need Kelly.
I miss my partner in crime.
ABBY LEE: Woo!
MELISSA: I know! I know!
See? See?
I knew it was the best thing
in the world that Kelly was gone.
Yes!
Fabulous!
Woo-hoo!
We didn't have Paige
screwing up the numbers!
Yes!
JILL: It was great, Abby.
Great!
- Woo!
MELISSA: Woo!
[applause]
- I was namedropping.
- No one's home.
- Hi, guys.
WOMEN: Hi.
So moms, congratulations.
HOLLY: Thank you.
- You guys had an amazing day.
I do want to introduce
somebody to you guys.
This is Anthony's mom.
Yes, I am.
So I don't know if you guys
realized that she was sitting
behind you and hearing all kinds
of comments that were being
made about her son.
He's a gentleman!
He's a gentleman first!
Well, he wasn't a gentleman to us!
But I'm going to speak for my son!
Now we know why he is the way he is!
And I can get in your face, too!
Why bother?
Because I'm talking about my son!
MELISSA: Okay. Oh, my gosh.
Oh, oh, oh, get out of her face.
That's why.
CHRISTI: Get out of her face.
- You know it.
CHRISTI: This is not--
- Yeah.
- --what we signed up for.
Stop! This is about dance!
Are you people insane?
CHRISTI [VOICEOVER]: What the hell
is going on in this room?
Like, it's dance.
It's just a dance competition.
Settle down, women.
Settle down.
JILL: He can't choreograph
a number to beat ours.
That's the bottom line.
ABBY LEE: Woo-hoo!
[cheering]
Yay!
Yay, yay, yay.
Good.
Payton did great.
Thank you for letting me join this week.
I want to see the aerial
walkover add a one-step though.
Okay.
Abby, what about Kelly
and Paige and Brooke?
Who?
I think if they wanted to reach
out to their dance teacher,
they would have.
I just can't get it through your heads
that those children don't want to be here.
CHRISTI: Kelly, Brooke, and Paige
are part of the team.
I think everybody here wants them.
She's going to throw it
all away to be a singer?
Don't you think it hurts me?
Come on, guys.
Let's go.
ABBY LEE [VOICEOVER]:
Next on "Dance Moms."
We are going to Intensity
Dance Competition again.
CHRISTI: We just want to know
why you want your 15-year-old
to dance with our seven-year-old.
Kelly, what's it going
to take to get you back?
LESLIE: What I'm telling you
is between you and I right now.
You are hurting my daughter!
I am more a part of this team
than you will ever be.
No you're not. You're a threat.
You're a habit.
ABBY LEE: The Abby Lee Dance
Company has one president.
[thunder striking]
I rule this Abby Lee Dance Company!
LESLIE: When opportunity comes knocking,
you better take advantage of it.
Shame on you!